The President: Hello, everybody.
One of America's greatest
strengths is our free market.
A thriving private sector is
the lifeblood of our economy
- it's how we create jobs,
expand opportunities,
and give everybody
a shot at success.
It's what has made America
the strongest country on Earth.
The most essential
ingredient in a healthy free
market is competition.
But right now, too many
companies are engaging in
behaviors that stifle
competition - like blocking
new competitors from
entering the market or
limiting the information and
options that give consumers
real choice.
As a consequence, the rest
of us pay higher prices for
lower quality
products and services.
Workers receive lower wages
than they otherwise would.
Small businesses and
entrepreneurs can get
squeezed out of the market.
And none of that is fair -
or good for our economy.
The deck should not be
stacked in favor of the
wealthiest individuals and
the biggest corporations,
against working Americans.
That's why my administration
is doing everything we can
to reverse this trend and
promote more competition
in the marketplace.
In addition to enforcing
the rules on the books,
I've directed federal
agencies to identify
anti-competitive behavior
in different industries,
and find new and specific
ways to promote competition.
One industry that's ripe
for change is cable TV.
Right now, 99 percent of
cable and satellite TV
customers rent set-top
boxes from their providers.
According to one survey,
this costs households an
average of more
than $230 per year.
We spend some $20 billion
to rent these devices.
While we have almost
unlimited choice in what we
watch on television, from
traditional programming to
online content, there's next
to no competition to build a
better, user-friendly
product that allows you to
easily access all this
content in one place.
So most consumers just rent
whatever
the cable company offers.
Because we have to.
That means companies
have little incentive
to innovate.
As a consequence, we need
multiple devices and
controllers to access
content from different sources.
That makes no sense.
So my administration has
encouraged the FCC to remove
the barriers to competition
that prevent new players
from offering innovative
cable box options to consumers.
We know this works.
For years, Americans had to
rent our telephones
from the phone company.
This was a while ago,
but when the FCC finally
unlocked competition
for home phones,
the marketplace was flooded
with all kinds of phone
options with new features,
and at different price points.
Consumers suddenly
had many options.
And the whole industry
moved forward as a result.
The same can happen
with cable boxes,
and in dozens of areas of
our economy - all of which
can make a difference
in your everyday life.
The bottom line is,
competition is good for
consumers, workers,
businesses, and our economy.
So I'm going to keep doing
everything I can to make
sure that our free market
works for everyone.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.